== What is the Cloud ==
"Cloud" refers to remote machines (servers) accessed throught the Internet. Enterprise DataCenters grew bigger and more costly, needing to be rellocated to a remote location. Huge costs like space, cooling and power drive corporations to move thei data center assets to the cloud.That relieves them from the hardware costs mentioned above, as well as maintaining and managing the infrastructure (networking, security).
Local Datacenters have LAN limitations but QoS can be configured as necessary.
Cloud Datacenters, have control over the internal networking, but access is through the Internet which is almost always "Best Effort".
== Cloud Components ==
1) Physical and logical components:
    - Servers, PODs, Networking Components(Switches, Firewalls)
    - front-end, back-end etc.

== Cloud Deployment Models ==

1. Private ( Evolution of the Enterprize DC ):
    - single "user"
    - Implemented within the IT environment of the organization. Managed in-house or service externalized.
    - Security Confidence (data stays always within the organization)

2. Public Cloud :
    - Cloud Infrastucture belongs to an organization that makes a business out of it.
    - The Cloud Provider is responsible for the *infrastructure* and the *control of data and operations* within the Cloud.
    - Multitenancy
    - Access through the Internet via secured IP
    - Reduced costs for the user -usualy subscription and pay per use.
3. Community Cloud:
    - Reduced group of tenants(e.g. government entities).

4. Hybrid Cloud:
    - Composition of 2 or more cloud with different levels of interoperability
    

| KPIs        | Private     | Community   | Public            | Hybrid         |
|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------------|----------------|
| Scalability | Limited     | Limited     | Very High         | Very High      |
| Security    | Most secure | Very Secure | Moderately Secure | Very Secure    |
| Performance | Very Good   | Very Good   | Low to Medium     | Good           |
| Reliability | Very High   | Very High   | Medium            | Medium to High |
| Cost        | High        | Medium      | Low               | Medium         |

== Cloud Service Models ==

1) Software as a Service(SaaS):
    * Provides application software running and accesible in the cloud.
        - No local lincensing or software installation
        - E.g. gmail, office365
2) Platform as a Service(PaaS):
    - Provides and endpoint in the cloud where customer can run their application.
    - _OS in the cloud_. The customer manages and installs his own applications.
3) Infrastucture as a Service(IaaS):
    - The customer has access to the resources of the underlying Cloud Infrastructure like VMs, VSwitchs, and he can provision/manage them.
4) Other:
    - Content as a Service
    - Desktop as a Service
    - Anything as a Service

== What is a Virtual Network ==
When we build multiple virtual overlays over a single physical network by encapsulation (tagging).
- E.g. overlay tags, tenant tags, etc. 
Virtual Networks allow for seamless multitenancy and traffic isolation.
Multiple Standards like:
- QinQ
- VxLAN
- NVGRE
- GENEVE

== How are VNs practically implemented? ==

By encapsulation
